Outdoor Portable Generator
Operator’s Manual

Model Number   _____________________________

Revision   __________________________________

Serial Number  ______________________________

Date Purchased   ____________________________

Copyright © 2018. Briggs & Stratton Corporation
Milwaukee, WI, USA. All rights reserved.
800-743-4115 
BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM

Manual No. 80029696 Revision D

Equipment Description

Table of Contents
Equipment Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Features and Controls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Operation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Storage  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
FCC/IC Compliance Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Troubleshooting/Specifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Warranty  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

Register Your Product
To ensure prompt and complete warranty coverage, register 
your product online at www.onlineproductregistration.com.

Symbols and Meanings

Signal

Meaning

DANGER

Indicates a hazard which, if not avoided, 
will result in death or serious injury.

WARNING

Indicates a hazard which, if not avoided, 
could result in death or serious injury.

CAUTION

Indicates a hazard which, if not avoided, 
could result in minor or moderate injury.

NOTICE

Indicates information considered important, 
but not hazard-related.

Symbol Name

Explanation

Safety Alert 
Symbol

Indicates a potential personal 
injury hazard.

Operator’s 
Manual

Toxic 
Fumes

Fire

Failure to follow warnings, 
instructions and operator’s 
manual could result in death or 
serious injury.

Engine exhaust contains 
carbon monoxide, a poisonous 
gas that will kill you in minutes. 
You cannot smell it or see it. 

Fuel and its vapors are extremely 
flammable which could cause 
burns or fire resulting in death or 
serious injury.
Engine exhaust could cause fire 
resulting in death or serious injury. 

Electric 
Shock

Generator could cause 
electrical shock resulting in 
death or serious injury.

Hot Surface

Muffler could cause burns 
resulting in serious injury.

WARNING!   This product can expose you to 
chemicals including gasoline engine exhaust, 
which is known to the State of California to cause 
cancer, and carbon monoxide, which is known to the State 
of California to cause birth defects or other reproductive 
harm. For more information go to www.P65Warnings.ca.gov.

Equipment Description

  Read this manual carefully and become familiar 
with your outdoor generator. Know its applications, 
its limitations, and any hazards involved. Save 
these original instructions for future reference.

The outdoor generator is an engine-driven, revolving 
field, alternating current (AC) generator equipped with a 
voltage regulator. The generator is designed to supply 
electrical power for operating compatible electrical lighting, 
appliances, tools and motor loads. The voltage regulator 
within the generator is designed to automatically maintain 
output voltage level.

The portable generator can be used to power outdoor 
items using the cord provided or to restore home power 
using a transfer switch. A transfer switch is a separate 
device installed by a licensed electrician that allows the 
portable generator to be cord connected, using the locking 
receptacle, directly into your home’s electrical system. 
Install a listed transfer switch as soon as possible if 
generator will be used to provide home power restoration.

Every effort has been made to ensure that the information 
in this manual is both accurate and current. However, 
the manufacturer reserves the right to change, alter or 
otherwise improve the generator and this documentation at 
any time without prior notice.

NOTICE   If you have questions about intended use,  
contact an authorized service dealer. This equipment is 
designed to be used with Briggs & Stratton® authorized 
parts only.
System Ground
The generator has a system ground that connects the 
generator frame components to the ground terminals 
on the AC output receptacles. The system ground is 
connected to the AC neutral wire (the neutral is bonded to 
the generator frame).

Special Requirements
There may be Federal or State regulations, local codes, or 
ordinances that apply to the intended use of the generator. 
Please consult a qualified electrician, electrical inspector, 
or the local agency having jurisdiction.
This generator is not intended to be used at a construction 
site or similar activity as defined by NFPA 70-2017 (NEC) 
section 590.6.

2 

BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM

To Restore Home Power Using a Listed 
Transfer Switch
Connections to your home’s electrical system must use a 
listed* transfer switch installed by a licensed electrician. 
The connection must isolate the generator power from 
the utility power and comply with all applicable laws and 
electrical codes. Power your home with a 30 Amp transfer 
switch system.

120/240V 
Outlet

—

Transfer 
Switch

Typical Indoor Items

To Restore Power Using Extension Cords

120V
OUTLET

  1.  Only use grounded cords marked for outdoor use 

rated for your loads.

To provide power using 
extension cords

Minimum Gauge, Outdoor Rated

Up to 50 FT (15 M)

Up to 100 FT (30 M)

16

14

12

10

14

12

10

8

Total 
Amperage

Up to 13A

Up to 15A

Up to 20A

Up to 30A

Equipment Description

  2.  Follow cord safety instructions.

  3.  Install carbon monoxide alarm(s).

  4.  When operating generator with extension cords, make 
sure it is located in an open, outdoor area, at least 20 
ft. (6.1 m.) from occupied spaces with exhaust pointed 
away.

  5.  Extension cords running directly into home, powering 

indoor items IS NOT RECOMMENDED. 

DANGER!   Engine exhaust contains carbon 
monoxide, a poisonous gas that will kill you in 
minutes. You cannot smell it, see it, or taste it. 

Even if you do not smell exhaust fumes, you could still be 
exposed to carbon monoxide gas.

•  Extension cords running directly into the home 

increase your risk of carbon monoxide poisoning 
through openings. 

•  If an extension cord running directly into the home is 
used to power indoor items, the operator recognizes 
that this increases the risk of CO poisoning to people 
inside the home and assumes that risk.

  6.  Install a listed* transfer switch as soon as possible 
if generator will be used to provide home power 
restoration.

* Certified by a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory 
that the product complies to appropriate product safety test 
standards.

3

  
  
  
  
  
  
 
     
 
 
Equipment Description

Recoil Starter

Oil Fill Cap/Dipstick
Engine Identification
Oil Drain Plug

Grounding Fastener

Fuel Cap

Fuel Valve

Choke Lever
Spark Arrester Muffler/Exhaust
Air Cleaner

Identification Label

Air Cleaner — Filters engine intake air.

Choke Lever — Used when starting a cold engine.

Identification Label — Provides model and serial number of 
generator. 

Engine Identification — Provides model, type and code of 
engine. 

Oil Drain Plug   — Drain engine oil here.

Oil Fill Cap/Dipstick   — Check and add engine oil here.

Fuel Cap — Add unleaded fuel here.

Recoil Starter — Used to start the engine manually.

Fuel Valve — Used to turn fuel supply on and off to engine.

Grounding Fastener — Consult your local agency having 
jurisdiction for grounding requirements in your area.

Spark Arrester Muffler/Exhaust — Lowers engine noise and 
is equipped with a spark arrester screen.

4 

BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM

Compare the illustrations with your generator to familiarize yourself with the locations of various controls and product warnings.

Features and Controls

CO Guard™ 
Carbon Monoxide 
(CO) Shutdown 
Indicator Light

Engine Switch

Circuit Breakers

Display Button

Low Oil 
Shutdown

Main Breaker

120/240 Volt AC, 30 Amp 
Locking Receptacle

120 Volt AC, 20 Amp 
GFCI Duplex Receptacles

120 Volt AC, 20 Amp, GFCI Duplex Receptacles  —  Used 
to supply 120 Volt AC, single phase, 60 Hz power for 
electrical lighting, appliance, tool and motor loads.

Display Button — Push to scroll through LCD screens. 
Also push and hold for a minimum of 3 seconds to reset 
maintenance reminders.

120/240 Volt AC, 30 Amp Locking Receptacle — Used to 
supply 120 / 240 Volt AC, single phase, 60 Hz power for 
electrical lighting, appliance, tool and motor loads.

Circuit Breakers (AC) — The 120 Volt AC, 20A GFCI 
duplex receptacles are provided with “push to reset” 20 
Amp circuit breakers to protect the generator against 
electrical overload.

CO Guard™ Carbon Monoxide (CO) Shutdown Indicator 
Light — Indicates the engine shutdown due to carbon 
monoxide accumulation around the generator or a CO 
Guard system fault occurred.

Engine Switch — Set this switch to on (I) before starting 
engine. Set switch to off (0) to shut off engine.

Low Oil Shutdown — This unit is equipped with a low oil 
protection device. Oil must be at proper level for engine 
to run. If the engine oil drops below a preset level, an oil 
switch will stop the engine. Check oil level with dipstick.

Main Breaker — Protects the generator against electrical 
overload. If breaker trips it cuts power to all receptacles.

5

Features and Controls

6 

BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM

Features and Controls

Exhaust/muffler

Point away from homes

202997

7

Operation

Operation
Step 1: Safe Location
Before starting the portable generator there are two equally 
important safety concerns regarding carbon monoxide  
poisoning and fire that must be addressed.

Operation Location to Reduce the Risk of  
Carbon Monoxide Poisoning

The engine exhaust of all fossil fuel burning equipment, 
such as a portable generator, contains carbon monoxide, 
a poisonous gas that will kill you in minutes. You cannot 
smell it, see it, or taste it. Even if you do not smell exhaust 
fumes, you could still be exposed to carbon monoxide gas. 

By law in many jurisdictions it is required to have a carbon 
monoxide alarm in operating condition in your home. 
A carbon monoxide alarm is an electronic device that 
detects hazardous levels of carbon monoxide. When there 
is a buildup of carbon monoxide, the alarm will alert the 
occupants by flashing visual indicator light and alarm. 
Smoke alarms cannot detect carbon monoxide gas.

Carbon Monoxide Alarm(s)

Install carbon monoxide alarm 
inside your home. Without 
working carbon monoxide 
alarms, you will not realize you 
are getting sick and dying from 
carbon monoxide poisoning.

DANGER!   Engine exhaust contains carbon 
monoxide, a poisonous gas that will kill you in 
minutes. You cannot smell it, see it, or taste it. 

Even if you do not smell exhaust fumes, you could still be 
exposed to carbon monoxide gas.

•  Operate portable generator only outdoors, at least 
20 ft. (6.1 m) from occupied spaces with exhaust 
pointed away to reduce the risk of carbon monoxide 
accumulating.

•  Install battery-operated carbon monoxide alarms or 

plug-in carbon monoxide alarms with battery back-up 
according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Smoke 
alarms cannot detect carbon monoxide gas.

•  Do not run portable generator inside homes, garages, 
basements, crawlspaces, sheds, or other partially-
enclosed spaces even if using fans or opening doors 
and windows for ventilation. Carbon monoxide can 
quickly build up in these spaces and can linger for 
hours, even after this product has shut off.

If you start to feel sick, dizzy, weak, or your homes carbon 
monoxide alarm sounds while using this product, get to 
fresh air right away. Call emergency services. You may 
have carbon monoxide poisoning.

Prevent Carbon Monoxide (CO) Poisoning
•  Use outdoors far away from any home.

• 

• 

Point exhaust away from all homes and  
occupied spaces.

Install CO alarms inside your home.

20 ft. (6.1 m) min.

To better educate yourself about all carbon monoxide risks,  
go to www.takeyourgeneratoroutside.com.

8 

BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM

 
 
 
 
Operation Location to Reduce the Risk of Fire

•   Do not place portable generator under a deck or other 

WARNING!   Exhaust heat/gases could ignite 
combustibles, structures or damage fuel tank 
causing a fire, resulting in death or serious injury. 

•  Portable generator must be at least 5 ft. (1.5 m) from any 
structure, overhang, trees, shrubs, or vegetation over 12 
in. (30.5 cm) in height. 

type of structure that may confine airflow. Smoke alarm(s) 
must be installed and maintained indoors according to the 
manufacturer’s instructions/recommendations. 

•  Carbon monoxide alarms cannot detect smoke. 

•  Do not place portable generator in manner other than 

shown.

Operation

5 ft. (1.5 m) min.

MUFFLER
Exhaust

5 ft. (1.5 m) 
min.

20 ft. (6.1 m) min.

9

Operation

Step 2: Oil and Fuel
The generator engine is shipped from the factory filled with 
10W30 oil.  This allows for generator operation in a wide 
range of temperature and climate conditions. For checking/
adding or changing oil see Maintenance.

Fuel must meet these requirements:

•  Clean, fresh, unleaded fuel with a minimum of 87 

octane.

•  Gasoline with an ethanol content up to 10% is 

acceptable.

E10

E15

NOTICE   Do not mix oil in fuel or modify engine to run on 
alternate fuels. Use of unapproved fuels could damage 
engine and will not be covered under warranty.

See High Altitude for 5,000 ft. and above.

WARNING!   Fuel and its vapors are extremely 
flammable which could cause burns or fire  
resulting in death or serious injury.

•  Do not refuel during operation.

•  Do not smoke during refueling.

•  Turn engine off and let it cool at least 2 minutes before 

removing fuel cap.

•  Fill fuel tank outdoors. Keep fuel away from sparks, open 

flames, pilot lights, heat, and other ignition sources. 
Check fuel lines, tank, cap and fittings frequently for 
cracks or leaks. Replace if necessary.

  1.  Slowly remove fuel cap to relieve pressure in tank.

  2.  Slowly add unleaded fuel to fuel tank. Be careful not 

to fill above bottom lip. This allows adequate space for 
fuel expansion. 

High Altitude
At altitudes over 5,000 ft. (1524 m), a minimum 85 octane  
fuel is acceptable. To remain emissions compliant, high 
altitude adjustment is required. Operation without this 
adjustment will cause decreased performance, increased 
fuel consumption, and increased emissions.
See an authorized Briggs & Stratton dealer for high altitude 
adjustment information. Operation of the engine at altitudes 
below 2,500 ft. (762 m) with the high altitutde kilt is not 
recommended.
Transporting
When transporting equipment with a vehicle or trailer, turn 
fuel shutoff valve to off (0) position. Do not tip engine or 
equipment at an angle which causes fuel to spill.
Step 3: Generator Start Up
Disconnect all electrical loads from the generator. Use the 
following start instructions:
  1.  Make sure unit is outdoors on a level surface.
NOTICE   Failure to operate the unit on a level surface may 
cause the unit to shut down.
  2.  Turn the fuel valve to the on (I) position.

Fuel Valve

  3.  Push choke lever to choke (

) position.

Choke Lever

  4.  Set engine switch to on (I) position.

Engine 
Switch

  5.  Grasp recoil handle and pull slowly until slight 

resistance is felt. Then pull rapidly to start engine.

  6.  Slowly move choke lever to run (

) position. If engine 

falters, move choke lever to half choke position until 
) position.
engine runs smoothly, and then to run (

  3.  Install fuel cap and let any spilled fuel evaporate 

before starting engine.

NOTICE   If engine starts but fails to run, see Low Oil 
Shutdown in Features and Controls.

10 

BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM

 
 
   
Step 4: Connecting Electrical Loads
Using Extension Cords

Use only grounded extension cords marked for outdoor 
use rated for your loads. Follow cord safety instructions. 

120 Volt AC, 20 Amp, GFCI Duplex Receptacles

Use each receptacle to operate 120 Volt AC, single-phase, 
60 Hz electrical loads requiring up to 2,400 Watts (2.4 kW) 
at 20 Amps of current. 

Operation

WARNING!   Damaged or overloaded extension 
cords could overheat, arc, and burn resulting in 
death or serious injury. 

NOTICE   For best results when plugging into the 120 Volt 
GFCI receptacles, plug items to be powered in sequence 
as shown.

1

2

3

4

NOTICE   For generator output required see Generator 
Capacity. Connect electrical loads in off position then turn 
on for operation. 

Generator Cord

The generator includes one, 25 ft. (7.6 m) cord. The cord 
is intended to power outdoor items by providing 120 Volt, 
15 Amps through three outlets. It is not intended to power 
indoor items on a permanent basis. Plug cord into one of 
the 120 Volt GFCI duplex receptacles provided.

NOTICE   Follow all safety precautions on cord tag when 
connecting any cord or device to the generator.

Ground Fault Protection

The duplex receptacles are equipped with Ground Fault 
Circuit Interrupter (GFCI) protection. The GFCI protects 
against electrical shock that may be caused if your body 
becomes a path which electricity travels to reach ground. 

When protected by a GFCI, one may still feel a shock, but 
the GFCI is intended to cut current off quickly enough so 
that a person in normal health should not suffer any serious 
electrical injury.

WARNING!   Generator voltage could cause 
electrical shock or burn resulting in death or 
serious injury. Contact with the hot and neutral 
conductor at the same time could cause electrical shock 
or burn, even if the circuit is GFCI protected. 

Testing the GFCI

With the engine running, test your GFCI outlet prior to each 
use, as follows:

•  Push the “Test” button. The “Reset” button should pop 
out, which should allow no power to reach the outlet. 

•  Press the “Reset” button firmly until it is fully in place 
and locks in that position. If the GFCI outlet does not 
reset properly, do not use the outlet. Call or take your 
generator to a local service center.

•  If the GFCI trips by itself at any time, reset and test the 

outlet. 

11

 
 
 
Operation

120/240 Volt AC, 30 Amp, Locking Receptacle

Use a NEMA L14-30 plug with this receptacle. Connect a 
4-wire cord set rated for 250 Volt AC loads at 30 Amps. 
The generator’s locking receptacle is not protected by a 
GFCI.

4-Wire Cord Set

If the output wattage of “TOTAL PWR” is between 90% 
and 100%, the text will flash. If it reaches 101%, the LCD 
display will change to “OVERLOAD  REMOVE LOAD”.

240V

120V

120V

NOTICE   Failure to remove load from generator could 
cause circuit breaker(s) to open and/or possible damage to 
generator.

W (Neutral)

Hour Meter

Y (Hot)

X (Hot)

NEMA L14-30

Ground (Green)

This receptacle powers 120/240 Volt AC, 60 Hz, single 
phase loads requiring up to 6,250 Watts of power 
(6.25 kW) at 26.0 Amps for 240 Volts or two independent 
120 Volt loads at 26.0 Amps each. 

STATSTATION®
The control panel has a built in LCD display to monitor the 
following features:

•  Load Monitor (Total Generator Load)

•  Hour Meter (Total Generator Hours)

•  Maintenance Reminder (Engine Maintenance)

When the generator is first started, the following title 
screen will display for three seconds.

Load Monitor

The load monitor measures the output wattage (generator 
load) of all the generator receptacles and will display 
“TOTAL PWR” (total power) along with percentage of total 
generator load.

The LCD on the control panel also has a built in hour meter 
that displays and records how many hours your generator 
has run (up to 9,999.9).

Maintenance Reminder

The LCD on the control panel also has a built in 
maintenance reminder to alert you to check oil, change 
air filter, change oil, and change spark plug. The LCD will 
display the following screens for the different maintenance 
intervals:

•  “CHECK OIL  8HRS  HOLD TO RESET” after every 

8 hours of operation.

•  “AIR CLEANER  25HRS  HOLD TO RESET” after 

every 25 hours of operation.

•  “OIL CHANGE  50HRS  HOLD TO RESET” after 

every 50 hours of operation.

•  “SPARK PLG  100HRS  HOLD TO RESET” after 

every 100 hours of operation.

The different maintenance interval hours will count down 
to zero hours when the generator is running. When 
a maintenance interval reaches zero hours the LCD 
screen will flash the maintenance to be performed. Once 
maintenance has been performed, you must push and hold 
the display button on the control panel for a minimum of 3 
seconds to reset the timer for each maintenance interval.

12 

BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Generator Capacity
To make sure your generator can supply enough running 
watts and starting watts for the items you will power at the 
same time, follow these three simple steps:

  1.  Select the items you will power at the same time. See 

following list for typical wattages.

Tool or Appliance

Light Bulb - 75 Watt

Sump Pump - 1/3 HP
Refrigerator/Freezer 
Water Well Pump - 1/3 HP
Window AC - 10,000 BTU
Furnace Fan Blower - 1/2 HP
Microwave Oven - 1000 Watt
Plasma Television - 50”

Laptop

Garage Door Opener - 1/2 HP

Running 
Watts*

Starting 
Watts**

75

1140
550
575
1000
800
1000
500

250

300

-

2850
1350
1440
2100
2350
-
-

-

500

*  Typical wattages listed are approximate only. Check tool 

or appliance for actual wattage.

** The momentary electrical current the generator can 
provide to start electric motors, per Briggs & Stratton 
standard 628K. It does not represent the power required to 
continuously run electrical loads. It is the maximum current 
that can momentarily be supplied when starting a motor, 
multiplied by the generator’s rated voltage.

  2.  Total the running watts. This is the amount of power 
your generator must produce to keep your items 
running. See following example:

Example

Tool or Appliance

Running Watts

Starting Watts

Window AC - 10000 BTU

Refrigerator/Freezer

Plasma Television

Light (75 Watts)

1000
550

500

75

2100
1350

—

—

2125 Total  
Running Watts

2100 Highest 
Starting Watts 

Total running watts 
Highest starting watts  
Total generator watts required 

= 2125
= 2100
= 4225

  3.  Estimate the starting watts you will need. Because not 
all motors start at the same time, total starting wattage 
can be estimated by adding only the item with the 
highest additional starting watts requirements to the 
total running watts from step 2.

Operation

Power Management

To manage generator power, sequentially add loads as 
follows:
  1.  With nothing connected to generator, start the engine 

outdoors.

  2.  Plug in and turn on the first load, preferably the largest 

load you have.

  3.  Permit the generator output to stabilize (engine runs 
smoothly and attached device operates properly).

  4.  Plug in and turn on the next load.
  5.  Again, permit the generator to stabilize.
  6.  Repeat steps 4 and 5 for each additional load.

Never add more loads than the generator capacity. 
Take special care to consider starting watts in generator 
capacity.

CO Guard
Carbon Monoxide (CO) Shutdown System

CO Guard automatically shuts down the engine when 
harmful levels of carbon monoxide accumulate around the 
generator or a CO Guard fault occurs. After shutdown, the 
CO Guard indicator light will blink for at least five minutes 
per the chart below.

CO Guard DOES NOT replace carbon monoxide alarms. 
Install battery-powered carbon monoxide alarm(s) in your 
home. Don’t run generator in enclosed areas. 

Color/Pattern
Red
• •  ••

Blue

•  •  •

Description
Carbon monoxide accumulated around 
generator. Move generator to an 
open, outdoor area 20 ft. (6.1 m) from 
occupied spaces with exhaust pointed 
away. Automatic shutoff is an indication 
generator was improperly located. 

If you start to feel sick, dizzy, weak, or 
your homes carbon monoxide alarm 
sounds while using this product, get to 
fresh air right away. Call emergency 
services. You may have carbon 
monoxide poisoning.
CO Guard fault occured¥. 
See Briggs & Stratton authorized service 
dealer.

¥Blue light will blink for five seconds at the startup of generator to 
show CO Guard functioning properly.

Step 5: Generator Shutdown
  1.  Turn off and unplug all electrical loads from generator 

panel receptacles. Never stop engine with electrical 
devices plugged in and turned on.

  2.  Let engine run at no-load for one minute to stabilize 
internal temperatures of engine and generator.

  3.  Push engine switch to off (0) position.

  4.  Move fuel valve to off (0) position.

13

Cleaning

Daily or before use, look around and underneath 
the generator for signs of oil or fuel leaks. Clean any 
accumulated debris. Keep area around muffler free from 
any debris.

•  Use a soft bristle brush to loosen caked on dirt or oil.

•  Use a damp cloth to wipe exterior surfaces clean.

NOTICE   Improper treatment of generator could damage 
it and shorten its life. Do not expose generator to excessive 
moisture, dust, dirt, or corrosive vapors. Do not insert any 
objects through cooling slots.

Fuel Valve Maintenance
The fuel valve is equipped with a fuel sediment cup, 
screen, and o-ring that need to be cleaned.

  1.  Move fuel valve to off (0) position.

  2.  Remove sediment cup from fuel valve. Remove o-ring 

and screen from fuel valve.

Screen

O-Ring

Sediment Cup

  3.  Wash sediment cup, o-ring, and screen in a 
nonflammable solvent. Dry them thoroughly.

  4.  Place screen and o-ring into fuel valve. Install 

sediment cup and tighten securely.

  5.  Move fuel valve to on (I) position, and check for leaks. 

Replace fuel valve if there is any leakage.

Maintenance

Maintenance
Maintenance Schedule
Follow the hourly or calendar intervals, whichever occurs 
first. More frequent service is required when operating in 
adverse conditions noted below.

First 5 Hours

•  Change engine oil

Every 8 Hours or Daily

•  Clean debris

•  Check engine oil level

Every 25 Hours or Yearly

•  Clean engine air filter1

Every 100 Hours or Yearly

•  Change engine oil1

Yearly

•  Replace engine air filter1 

•  Service fuel valve

•  Service spark plug

•  Inspect muffler and spark arrester

•  Clean cooling system1, 2

1  Service more often under dirty or dusty conditions.
2  See any authorized dealer for service.

 General Recommendations

Regular maintenance will improve the performance and 
extend the life of the generator. See any authorized dealer 
for service.

The generator’s warranty does not cover items that have 
been subjected to operator abuse or negligence. To 
receive full value from the warranty, the operator must 
maintain the generator as instructed in this manual.

All service and adjustments should be made at least once 
each season. A new spark plug and clean air filter assure 
proper fuel-air mixture and help your engine run better and 
last longer. Follow requirements in Maintenance Schedule.

Emissions Control
Maintenance, replacement, or repair of the emissions 
control devices and systems may be performed by any 
non-road engine repair establishment or individual. 
However, to obtain ”no charge” emissions control service, 
the work must be performed by a factory authorized dealer. 
See Emissions Warranty.

14 

BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Engine Maintenance
Oil Recommendations
We recommend the use of Briggs & Stratton Warranty 
Certified oils for best performance. Other high-quality 
detergent oils are acceptable if classified for service SF 
or higher. Do not use special additives. See Common  
Service Parts.

Outdoor temperatures determine the proper oil viscosity for 
the engine. Use the chart to select the best viscosity for the 
outdoor temperature range expected.

*  Below 40°F (4°C) the use of SAE 30 will result in hard starting.

**  Above 80°F (27°C) the use of 10W30 may cause increased oil 

consumption. Check oil level more frequently.

Checking/Adding Engine Oil
Oil level should be checked prior to each use or at least 
every 8 hours of operation. Keep oil level maintained.

  1.  Make sure generator is on a level surface.

  2.  Clean area around oil fill, remove dipsitck and wipe  

with clean cloth. Replace dipstick. Remove and check 
oil level.

NOTICE   Do not screw in dipstick when checking oil level.

  3.  Verify oil is at full mark on dipstick. Replace and 

tighten dipstick.

Maintenance

NOTICE   Do not attempt to crank or start engine before 
it has been properly serviced with recommended oil. This 
could result in an engine failure.

 CAUTION   Avoid prolonged or repeated skin contact 

with used motor oil. Used motor oil has been shown 
to cause skin cancer in certain laboratory animals. 
Thoroughly wash exposed areas with soap and water.

  KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. DON’T 
POLLUTE. CONSERVE RESOURCES. RETURN 
USED OIL TO COLLECTION CENTERS.

Changing Engine Oil
If you are using your generator under extremely dirty or 
dusty conditions, or in extremely hot weather, change the 
oil more often.

Change the oil while the engine is still warm from running, 
as follows:

  1.  Make sure unit is on a level surface.

  2.  Remove oil drain plug and drain oil completely into a 

suitable container.

Oil Drain Plug

  3.  Reinstall oil drain plug and tighten securely. Remove 

dipstick.

  4.  Slowly pour recommended oil (about 36 oz. (1.0 l)) 

into oil fill opening. Pause to permit oil to settle. Fill to 
Full mark on dipstick.

  5.  Wipe dipstick clean each time oil level is checked. Do 

Full

not overfill.

  6.  Reinstall dipstick. Tighten cap securely.

  7.  Wipe up any spilled oil.

  4.  If needed, slowly pour oil into oil fill opening to the full 

mark on dipstick. Do not overfill.

NOTICE   Overfilling with oil could cause the engine to not 
start, or hard starting.

•   Do not overfill.

•  If over the full mark on dipstick, drain oil to reduce oil 

level to full mark on dipstick.

  5.  Replace and tighten dipstick.

15

Maintenance

Service Air Cleaner
Your engine will not run properly and may be damaged if 
you run it with a dirty air cleaner. Clean or replace more 
often if operating under dusty or dirty conditions.

  1.  Loosen screws and remove air cleaner cover.

Base

Filter

Cover

Screws

  2.  Carefully remove cartridge from base.

  3.  Install clean (or new) air cleaner assembly inside 

cover. Dispose of old filter properly.

NOTICE   If the filter is excessively dirty, replace with a 
new filter. See Common Service Parts.

  4.  Assemble air cleaner cover onto base and tighten 

screws.

Service Spark Plug
Changing the spark plug will help your engine to start 
easier and run better.

  1.  Clean area around spark plug.

  2.  Remove and inspect spark plug.

  3.   Replace spark plug if electrodes are pitted, burned 
or porcelain is cracked. Use the recommended 
replacement spark plug. See Common Service Parts.

  4.   Check electrode gap with wire feeler gauge and reset 
spark plug gap to recommended gap if necessary 
(see Specifications).

  5.  Install spark plug and tighten firmly.

Inspect Muffler and Spark Arrester
The engine exhaust muffler has a spark arrester screen. 
Inspect the muffler for cracks, corrosion, or other damage. 
Inspect spark arrester screen for damage or carbon 
blockage. Clean if carbon blockage is found using brush 
and commercial solvent or replace if damaged. 

WARNING!   Contact with muffler area could 
cause burns resulting in serious injury. 

•  Allow equipment to cool before servicing.

•   It is a violation of California Public Resource Code, 

Section 4442, to use or operate the engine on any forest-
covered, brush-covered, or grass-covered land unless 
the exhaust system is equipped with a spark arrester, as 
defined in Section 4442, maintained in effective working 
order. Other states or federal jurisdictions may have 
similar laws, reference Federal Regulation 36 CFR Part 
261.52. 

Replace spark arrester as follows:

  1.  Remove four screws that connect heat shield to 

muffler.

Spark Arrester Screen

Screws 

Muffler

Heatshield

Screws

  2.  Remove four screws that attach spark arrester screen.

  3.  Obtain a replacement screen. 

  4.  Reattach screen and muffler guard.

Common Service Parts
Air Cleaner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 491588
Spark Plug  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 797235
Engine Oil Bottle  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100028
Synthetic Oil Bottle  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100074
Fuel Stabilizer  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100120 or 100117
Contact an authorized service dealer or 
BRIGGSandSTRATTON.com for a full list of parts and 
diagrams.

16 

BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM

Storage
If storing the unit for more than 30 days, use the following 
guidelines to prepare it for storage.

Long Term Storage Instructions

  1.  Clean the generator as outlined in Cleaning.

  2.  Change engine oil while engine is still warm, drain oil 
from crankcase. Refill with recommended grade. See 
Changing Engine Oil.

  3.  Treat or drain fuel from generator as fuel can become 

stale when stored over 30 days. 

Stale fuel causes acid and gum deposits to form in the fuel 
system or on essential carburetor parts. To keep fuel fresh, 
use Briggs & Stratton® Advanced Formula Fuel Treatment 
& Stabilizer, available wherever Briggs & Stratton genuine 
service parts are sold. See Common Service Parts. 

There is no need to drain gasoline from the engine if a 
fuel stabilizer is added according to instructions. Run the 
engine for 2 minutes to circulate the stabilizer throughout 
the fuel system before storage.

If gasoline in the engine has not been treated with a fuel 
stabilizer, it must be drained into an approved container. 
Then run the engine until it stops from lack of fuel. The use 
of a fuel stabilizer in the storage container is recommended 
to maintain freshness.

WARNING!   Fuel and its vapors are extremely 
flammable and explosive which could cause 
burns, fire or explosion resulting in death or 

serious injury. 

•   When storing fuel or equipment with fuel in tank, store 

away from furnaces, stoves, water heaters, clothes dryers 
or other appliances that have pilot light or other ignition 
source because they could ignite fuel vapors. 

•   When draining fuel, turn generator engine off and let it 

cool at least 2 minutes before removing fuel cap. Loosen 
cap slowly to relieve pressure in tank. Drain fuel tank 
outdoors. Keep fuel away from sparks, open flames, pilot 
lights, heat, and other ignition sources. 

•   Check fuel lines, tank, cap and fittings frequently for 

cracks or leaks. Replace if necessary. 

4.  Store generator in clean, dry area and cover with a 

suitable protective cover that does not retain moisture.

WARNING!   Storage covers could cause a fire 
resulting in death or serious injury. 

•  Do not place a storage cover over a hot or running 

generator. Let equipment cool for a sufficient time before 
placing the cover on the equipment.

Storage

FCC/IC Compliance Statement
FCC Part 15 Information to User

Pursuant to part 15.21 of the FCC Rules, you are cautioned 
that changes or modifications to transceiver not expressly 
approved by Briggs & Stratton could void your authority to 
operate the portable generator. 

This device complies with part 15 of the FCC Rules. 
Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) 
This device may not cause harmful interference, and 
(2) this device must accept any interference received, 
including interference that may cause undesired operation.

This equipment has been tested and found to comply with 
the limits for a Class B digital device, pursuant to part 15 
of the FCC Rules. These limits are designed to provide 
reasonable protection against harmful interference in a 
residential installation. This equipment generates, uses 
and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed 
and used in accordance with the instructions, may cause 
harmful interference to radio communications. However, 
there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a 
particular installation. If this equipment does cause harmful 
interference to radio or television reception, which can be 
determined by turning the equipment off and on, the user 
is encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or 
more of the following measures:

•  Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.

•  Increase the separation between the equipment and 

receiver.

•  Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit 

different from that to which the receiver is connected.

•  Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV 

technician for help.

17

 
 
 
 
Troubleshooting/Specifications

Problem

Cause

Engine is running, but no AC 
output is available.

Engine runs well at no-load but 
“bogs down” when loads are 
connected.

  1.  One of the circuit breakers is open.

  2.  Poor connection or defective cord set.

  3.  Connected device is bad.

  4.  GFCI tripped.

Correction
  1.  Reset circuit breaker.

  2.  Check and repair.
  3.  Connect another device that is in 

good condition.

  4.  Reset GFCI.

  1.  Generator is overloaded.

  1.  See Generator Capacity.

  1.  Engine switch set to off (0) position.

  1.  Set switch to on (I) position.

  2.  Fuel valve is in off (0) position.

  2.  Turn fuel valve to on (I) position.

  3.  Low oil level. 

Engine will not start; starts and 
runs rough or shuts down when 
running.

4.  Dirty air cleaner.

  5.  Out of fuel.

  3.  Fill crankcase to proper level or 
place generator on level surface.

  4.  Clean or replace air cleaner.

  5.  Fill fuel tank.

  6.  Spark plug wire not connected to 

  6.  Connect wire to spark plug. 

spark plug.

  7.  Flooded with fuel.

Engine shuts down and CO 
Guard LED blinks red (• •  ••) .

  1.  Generator improperly located.

For all other issues, see a Briggs & Stratton authorized dealer.

  7.  Wait 5 minutes and re-crank engine.
  1.  Move generator to an open, outdoor 

area. See CO Guard Carbon 
Monoxide (CO) Shutdown System.

Specifications
Rated Wattage* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,250 Watts
Starting Wattage** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,500 Watts
AC Current at 240 Volts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26.0 Amps
AC Current at 120 Volts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52.0 Amps
Frequency. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Hz at 3600 rpm
Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Single Phase
Displacement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25.63 cu. in. (420 cc)
Spark Plug Gap . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.030 in. (0.76 mm)
Fuel Capacity . . . . . . . . . 7.5 U.S. Gallons (28.4 Liters)
Oil Capacity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36 Ounces (1.0 Liters)

Power Ratings: The gross power rating for individual gasoline engine models is labeled in accordance with SAE (Society of Automotive 
Engineers) code J1940 Small Engine Power & Torque Rating Procedure, and is rated in accordance with SAE J1995. Torque values are 
derived at 2600 RPM for those engines with “rpm” called out on the label and 3060 RPM for all others; horsepower values are derived at 
3600 RPM. The gross power curves can be viewed at www.BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM. Net power values are taken with exhaust and 
air cleaner installed whereas gross power values are collected without these attachments. Actual gross engine power will be higher than 
net engine power and is affected by, among other things, ambient operating conditions and engine-to-engine variability. Given the wide 
array of products on which engines are placed, the gasoline engine may not develop the rated gross power when used in a given piece of 
power equipment. This difference is due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the variety of engine components (air cleaner, 
exhaust, charging, cooling, carburetor, fuel pump, etc.), application limitations, ambient operating conditions (temperature, humidity, 
altitude), and engine-to engine variability. Due to manufacturing and capacity limitations, Briggs & Stratton may substitute an engine of 
higher rated power for this engine.

* Generator per PGMA (Portable Generator Manufacturers’ Association) standard ANSI/PGMA G300-2018, Safety and Performance of 
Portable Generators.

** Per Briggs & Stratton 628K

18 

BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM

19

Warranty

BRIGGS & STRATTON PRODUCTS WARRANTY POLICY

LIMITED WARRANTY
Briggs & Stratton warrants that, during the warranty period specified below, it will repair or replace, free of charge, any part that is defective in material or workmanship 
or both. Transportation charges on product submitted for repair or replacement under this warranty must be borne by purchaser. This warranty is effective for 
and is subject to the time periods and conditions stated below. For warranty service, find the nearest Authorized Service Dealer in our dealer locator map at 
BRIGGSandSTATTON.COM. The purchaser must contact the Authorized Service Dealer, and then make the product available to the Authorized Service Dealer for 
inspection and testing.
There is no other express warranty. Implied warranties, including those of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, are limited to the 
warranty period listed below, or to the extent permitted by law. Liability for incidental or consequential damages are excluded to the extent exclusion 
is permitted by law. Some states or countries do not allow limitations on how long an implied warranty lasts, and some states or countries do not allow the exclusion 
or limitation of incidental or consequential damages, so the above limitation and exclusion may not apply to you. This warranty gives you specific legal rights and you 
may also have other rights which vary from state to state or country to country.**

WARRANTY PERIOD

Item

Equipment

Engine*

Battery (if equipped)

Consumer Use

Commercial Use

24 months ▲

24 months

3 months

12 months

12 months

None

▲ After 12 months, warranty covers parts only. 
* Applies to Briggs & Stratton engines only. Warranty coverage of non-Briggs & Stratton engines is provided by that engine manufacturer. Emissions-related components 
are covered by the Emissions Warranty Statement.
** In Australia - Our goods come with guarantees that cannot be excluded under the Australian Consumer Law. You are entitled to a replacement or refund for a major 
failure and for compensation for any other reasonably foreseeable loss or damage. You are also entitled to have the goods repaired or replaced if the goods fail to be 
of acceptable quality and the failure does not amount to a major failure. For warranty service, find the nearest Authorized Service Dealer in our dealer locator map at 
BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM, or by calling 1300 274 447, or by emailing or writing to salesenquires@briggsandstratton.com.au, Briggs & Stratton Australia Pty Ltd, 1 
Moorebank Avenue, NSW, Australia, 2170.
The warranty period begins on the date of purchase by the first retail or commercial consumer. “Consumer use” means personal residential household use by a retail 
consumer. “Commercial use” means all other uses, including use for commercial, income producing or rental purposes. Once a product has experienced commercial 
use, it shall thereafter be considered as a commercial use product for purposes of this warranty.
Save your proof of purchase receipt. If you do not provide proof of the initial purchase date at the time warranty service is requested, the manufacturing date of the 
product will be used to determine the warranty period. Product registration is not required to obtain warranty service on Briggs & Stratton products.

ABOUT YOUR WARRANTY

Warranty service is available only through Briggs & Stratton Authorized Service Dealers. This warranty covers only defects in materials or workmanship. It does not cover 
damage caused by improper use or abuse, improper maintenance or repair, normal wear and tear, or stale or unapproved fuel.
Improper Use and Abuse - The proper, intended use of this product is described in the Operator’s Manual. Using the product in a way not described in the Operator’s 
Manual or using the product after it has been damaged will not be covered under this warranty. Warranty coverage will also not be provided if the serial number on the 
product has been removed or the product has been altered or modified in any way, or if the product has evidence of abuse such as impact damage or water/chemical 
corrosion damage.
Improper Maintenance or Repair - This product must be maintained according to the procedures and schedules provided in the Operator’s Manual, and serviced or 
repaired using genuine Briggs & Stratton parts or equivalent. Damage caused by lack of maintenance or use of non-original parts is not covered by warranty.
Normal Wear and Tear - Like most mechanical devices, your unit is subject to wear even when properly maintained. This warranty does not cover repairs when normal 
use has exhausted the life of a part or the equipment. Maintenance and wear items such as filters, belts, cutting blades, and brake pads (except engine brake pads) are 
not covered by warranty due to wear characteristics alone, unless the cause is due to defects in material or workmanship.
Stale or Unapproved Fuel - In order to function correctly, this product requires fresh fuel that conforms to the criteria specified in the Operator’s Manual. Engine or 
equipment damage caused by stale fuel or the use of unapproved fuels (such as E15 or E85 ethanol blends) is not covered by warranty.
Other Exclusions - This warranty excludes damage due to accident, abuse, modifications, alterations, improper servicing, freezing or chemical deterioration. 
Attachments or accessories that were not originally packaged with the product are also excluded. There is no warranty coverage on equipment used for primary power in 
place of utility power or on equipment used in life support applications. This warranty does not include used, reconditioned, second-hand, or demonstration equipment or 
engines. This warranty also excludes failures due to acts of God and other force majeure events beyond the manufacturer’s control.

80011053_EN Rev. A

20 

BRIGGSandSTRATTON.COM

