FORM

INT-4

12/01

ALABAMA DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE
Notice of Change of Ownership,
Interest, or Participation of Interest
in Income Tax Capital Credit Project

DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
CONTROL NUMBER
___________________

This form is used to report a change in investing companies, sale of project to another party, merger into another company, or any other change of ownership or assign-
ment of interest in the participants of the project entity.  Notice is given by completing all portions of this form and the schedule of allocation.  When completed, the form
will provide the Alabama Department of Revenue with the name of the current project entity and a complete list of current eligible participants of the capital credit project.
The project number originally assigned by the Alabama Deparment of Revenue must be indicated.

Capital Credit Qualifying Project Identification

Project Number:

NAICS Code:

Project Location:
Type of project: (cid:2) New

(cid:2) Favored Geographic Area

(cid:2) Expansion
(cid:2) State Docks

Date project was originally placed in service as filed on Form INT-2, line 4:

(cid:2) Small Business Addition

(cid:2) Headquarters Facility

Actual project capital costs as originally filed on Form INT-2, line 6:
Project Information Prior to Change of Ownership, Interest, or Participation of Interest in Project

Project Entity:

Address:

Project Name:

FEIN:

City:
Project filing status: (✔ only one) (cid:2) LLC
Project Information Subsequent to Change of Ownership, Interest, or Participation of Interest in Project

State:
(cid:2) Sole Proprietorship (cid:2) C Corporation (cid:2) S Corporation (cid:2) Estate (cid:2) Partnership

Telephone No.:  (

ZIP:

)

Effective date of change of ownership, interest, or participation of interest in project:

Description of the change (i.e., change of interest, merger, sale of project):

Project Entity:

Address:

City:
Project filing status: (✔ only one) (cid:2) LLC

Project Name:

FEIN:

State:
(cid:2) Sole Proprietorship (cid:2) C Corporation (cid:2) S Corporation (cid:2) Estate (cid:2) Partnership

Telephone No.:  (

ZIP:

)

Contact person for capital credit and to whom all correspondence will be sent:

Use The Schedule Below To List All Current Participants Of The Project Entity.
Current Allocations of Capital Credit
A complete list of all participants in the project entity entitled to receive the Capital Credit must be provided.  (Attach additional sheets if necessary.)

1.

Name:

Address:

City:

State:

Zip:

3.

Name:

Address:

City:

Social Security No. or FEIN:

Percentage Allocation of Credit:

Social Security No. or FEIN:

%

Percentage Allocation of Credit:

2.

Name:

Address:

City:

State:

Zip:

4.

Name:

Address:

City:

Social Security No. or FEIN:

Percentage Allocation of Credit:

Social Security No. or FEIN:

%

Percentage Allocation of Credit:

State:

Zip:

State:

Zip:

%

%

Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I am duly authorized to complete this form and that I have listed all the participants of the project
entity. I have examined the above statements and to the best of my knowledge and belief they are true, correct, and complete.

Your Signature:

Title:

Date:

Instructions for Preparing Notice of Change of Ownership,
Interest, or Participation of Interest in Project (Form INT-4)

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

If at any time during the period in which an investing company or companies is
qualified for the capital credit, there is change in the company or companies partic-
ipating in the qualified project, or a change in the ownership regarding the share-
holders, partners, members, owners, or beneficiaries of the investing company or
companies, the project entity shall file with the Alabama Department of Revenue on
Form INT-4 a complete listing of investing company or companies, or the share-
holders, partners, members, owners, or beneficiaries of the investing company or
companies entitled to the credit as a result of the change in ownership.

Pursuant to Section 40-18-193(c), Code of Alabama 1975, a change in owner-
ship or assignment of interest in any project shall not increase the amount of capi-
tal credit available and the purchasers, assignees, or successors of the project or
interest herein shall be entitled to the capital credit upon the same conditions and
for the same period as the investing company or companies originally entitled to the
capital credit.

This form must be filed and completed by the project entity in order for the tax-
payer(s) to receive an income tax credit.  The form is used to report a change in
partnership members, S corporation shareholders, sale of project to another party,
or  merger  into  another  company.    When  completed,  the  form  will  provide  the
Alabama Department of Revenue with the name of the current project entity and a
complete list of current eligible recipients of the income tax credit for this project.
The  project  number  originally  assigned  by  the Alabama  Department  of  Revenue
must be indicated.

If you have any questions pertaining to the administration of this form or related
to the capital credit in general, please contact the Alabama Department of Revenue
at  (334)  242-1175.   Additional  capital  credit  forms  and  information  can  be  down-
loaded  from  the  Alabama  Department  of  Revenue’s  Web  site  at  www.ador.
state.al.us under “Tax Incentives.”  Mail this completed form to:  Alabama Depart-
ment of Revenue, ATTN: Capital Credit Program Administrator, P.O. Box 327001,
Montgomery, AL 36132-7001.

LINE BY LINE INSTRUCTIONS

Project  Number  –  Enter  the  project  number  assigned  by  the  Alabama
Department of Revenue when the qualifying project was originally approved.  This
number must be on all correspondence with the Department pertaining to the cap-
ital credit project.

NAICS Code  –  Enter  the  North  American  Industry  Classification  System
(NAICS) code for the new, expanding, small business addition, favored geographic
area, or state docks project at which the predominate activity conducted will consti-
tute  an  industrial,  warehousing,  or  research  activity  as  defined  in  Section  40-18-
190(7). If the qualifying project is a Headquarters Facility, enter 000000.

Act 2001-965, which was signed into law on September 26, 2001, amended the
existing  income  tax  capital  credit,  changing  the  qualifying  Standard  Industrial
Classification (SIC) codes to the NAICS codes, covering the same types of busi-
nesses. Projects that were originally approved using a SIC code must convert to the
NAICS code.

Project Location – Enter the address where the project is physically located in

Alabama.

Type  of  Project –  Enter  the  project  type  as  originally  filed  on  Form  INT and
Form  INT-2.  The  project  type  will  not  change  throughout  the  life  of  the  project,
regardless of the change of ownership, interest, or participation of interest in the
project.

Date Project Was Originally Placed In Service – Enter the original placed in
service date of the project as filed on Form INT-2. The capital credit for the qualify-
ing project runs for 20 consecutive years from this date.

Actual Project Capital Costs As Originally Filed On Form INT-2 – Enter the
amount of actual project costs as filed originally on Form INT-2, line 6. The amount
of the annual capital credit available to be applied against the project’s tax liability
is determined by multiplying the total actual project capital costs on Form INT-2, line
6, by five percent. This amount will remain constant throughout the 20-year life of
the qualifying project.

PROJECT INFORMATION PRIOR TO CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, 

INTEREST, OR PARTICIPATION OF INTEREST IN THE PROJECT

Project Entity – Enter the name of the entity that was receiving the capital cred-

it prior to the change of ownership, interest, or participation in the project.  

Project Name – If the project was identified internally by a project name, enter

the project name.

Address – Enter the address to which all correspondence regarding this project
was sent prior to the change of ownership, interest, or participation in the project.
FEIN – Enter the Federal  Employer Identification Number of the project entity
prior to the change of ownership, interest, or participation of interest in the project.
Project Filing Status – Check the filing status of the project entity prior to the

change of ownership, interest, or participation of interest in the project.

PROJECT INFORMATION SUBSEQUENT TO CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP,
INTEREST, OR PARTICIPATION OF INTEREST IN THE PROJECT

Effective  date  of  the  change  of  Ownership,  Interest,  or  Participation  of
Interest in Project – Enter the date the change of ownership, interest, or partici-
pation of interest in the project occurred.  Please include month, day, and year.

Description  of  the  change –  Enter  the  type  of  change  that  occurred,  i.e.,
change of ownership, sale of project to another party, merger into another compa-
ny, change in legal entity, change of participation of interest in project for the mem-
bers, shareholders, or partners. Please be very detailed.

Project Entity – Enter the name of the entity that will be receiving the capital
credit subsequent to the change of ownership, interest, or participation of interest in
the project.  The entity qualifying for the capital credit must be the entity meeting the
requirements for the capital credit.  If the qualifying project is a joint venture, the joint
venture must be in the form of a legal entity.

Single Member Limited Liability Companies (“SMLLC”) will be classified as they
are classified for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Service’s
(IRS) “check-the-box” regulations.  If the investing company is a SMLLC that elects
to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, enter the SMLLC as
the project entity.  If the investing company is a SMLLC that does not “check-the-
box” for federal income tax purposes, the SMLLC shall be treated as a disregarded
entity for Alabama income tax purposes and the parent must be entered as the pro-
ject entity. 

Qualified  Subchapter  S  Subsidiaries    (Q-subs)  under  26  U.S.C.  Section
1361(b)(3) shall be treated as disregarded entities for Alabama income tax purpos-
es.  If the investing company is a Q-sub, the parent must be entered as the project
entity.

Project Name – If the project is identified internally by a project name, enter the
project name.  For example, ABC, Inc. is the project entity, but the project is known
as Alpha Division.  If the project is doing business as (dba), enter the dba name.  If
the project entity has more than one qualifying project for the capital credit, include
a project name that can identify each project.  If the qualifying project is a SMLLC
treated as a disregarded entity for tax purposes, enter the name of the SMLLC as
the project name.  If the qualifying project is a Q-sub, enter the name of the Q-sub
as the project name.

Address – Enter the address to which all correspondence regarding this project
should be sent subsequent to the change of ownership, interest, or participation in
the project.

FEIN – Enter the Federal  Employer Identification Number of the project entity

subsequent to the change of ownership, interest, or participation in the project.

Project Filing Status – Check the filing status the project entity will be subse-
quent to the change of ownership, interest, or participation of interest in the project.
Contact Person – Enter the name of the person to be contacted if additional
information is needed regarding the capital credit and to whom all correspondence
for the capital credit will be sent. Include a telephone number if different from the
number indicated above.

Current Allocations of Capital Credit – List all participants of the project enti-
ty to receive the capital credit subsequent to the change of ownership, interest, or
participation  of  interest  in  project.    Include  the  entities’ names,  addresses,  social
security  numbers  or  federal  employer  identification  numbers,  and  percentage  of
credit allocated to each entity or participant.  This list will serve as the agreement
between the Alabama Department of Revenue and the investing company or com-
panies  specifying  the  allocation  and  treatment  of  the  capital  credit  provided  by
Section 40-18-190 et. seq. and Section 40-18-203 et. seq., Code of Alabama 1975.
The capital credit shall be allocated among the shareholders, partners, mem-
bers, owners, or beneficiaries of the investing company or companies entitled to the
capital credit based on their distributive share, whether or not distributed, of the pro-
ject’s Alabama taxable apportionable income.  If an investing company or partici-
pant is not listed on this schedule, the capital credit will be disallowed.  

Attach additional sheets if necessary.

