w
e
N line
n
O

THE
DICTIONARY OF
MEDIEVAL LATIN
FROM BRITISH
SOURCES
The most comprehensive study ever
produced of Latin in medieval Britain
now available Online!

In partnership with the British Academy

THE DICTIONARY OF MEDIEVAL LATI
The most comprehensive study ever produced
of Latin in medieval Britain
The Dictionary of Medieval Latin from British Sources (DMLBS), the first fascicle of which appeared in 1975 and the
17th and last in 2013, is “the most comprehensive dictionary of Medieval Latin to have been produced and the first
ever to focus on British Medieval Latin”. Covering a particularly long period stretching from Gildas (fl. 540) to William
Camden (1600), it is “wholly based on original research”, that is to say on the close reading of thousands of Medieval
Latin texts. This has been carried out specifically for the purpose of recording their distinctive lexical characteristics, and,
as far as possible, using the best available sources, whether original manuscripts or modern critical editions. It is also
based on systematic searches within computer databases, including the Library of Latin Texts (LLT-A and LLT-B), where
many of the texts can be found that make up the sources for the DMLBS.
The digitised version of the DMLBS, without at all taking away the usefulness of the printed version, presents a real asset
in that it allows searching not only by headwords, but also by Latin word-forms, non-Latin word-forms, references
and the full text, criteria that can be combined in a single search.
The online launch of the DMLBS on the Brepolis platform is the result of a collaboration between the British Academy
and Brepols Publishers.
“British sources”
The “British sources” as defined here are mainly Latin texts written in Great Britain during the period mentioned above,
either by British authors or by authors who lived in Britain (among them Anselm of Aosta or of Canterbury and Lanfranc).
However, the DMLBS also includes British authors such as Alcuin or Wynfrith (alias Boniface), who have written abroad,
as well as texts coming from territories under the administration of the English crown (such as Ireland, the Channel Islands,
Normandy), and finally, letters and other documents in Latin sent to British authors and conserved among their writings.

Key Features - Online Version
❱

The complete printed version (©Oxford University Press)
available Online

❱

Multilingual interface (English, French, German and Italian)

❱

Search by Latin dictionary headwords, Latin words, non-Latin
words, textual references and full text

❱

Ability to use Wildcards and Operators

❱

The list of common abbreviations as well as the bibliographical
information have been included in the Online version

IN FROM BRITISH SOURCES
Latin in Britain
Although in itself a foreign language in Britain, Latin has known in this
country, mainly as a written language, a remarkable vitality in the Middle
Ages. So we know the names of more than 2,000 authors writing in British
medieval Latin, more than 500 of whom are regularly cited as sources in the
DMLBS, without counting the many texts by anonymous authors, as well as
private and public records.

ONLINE

Genres covered:
administrative and
legal documents;
stories and
chronicles; literary,

Vocabulary
Like other dictionaries of “regional” medieval Latin, the DMLBS focuses
primarily on the characteristics of the Latin of the reference context, be it new
meanings of existing words or new words, which are not found elsewhere.
These new words can have a completely Latin formation, such as we see in
the verb semidormitare found in the De excidio Britanniae of Gildas, or they
can be derived from a variety of languages, including Anglo-Saxon, AngloNorman, Middle English, Norman, Old French, Arabic (with the discovery of
philosophical and scientific texts), Old Norse, a series of Celtic and Germanic
languages, as well as Greek, which remained an important influence.

philosophical,
scientific and
religious texts;
translations;
glossaries ...

❱ Entry from the

DMLBS Online

❱ Search by

English words
allows users
in-depth
vocabulary
searches

BREPOLIS LATIN
The DMLBS will be hosted on the Brepolis Latin platform, a rich environment that includes more than 8600 texts in 5
full-text databases (among which the Library of Latin Texts and the Archive of Celtic-Latin Literature) and 18 dictionaries.
A series of texts making up the sources for the DMLBS can be found in these full-text databases, including texts by
Gildas, Bede, Aldhelm, Wynfrith, Alcuin, Anselm of Canterbury, Lanfranc, Isaac of Stella, William of Newbury, Alexander
Neckam, Aelred of Rievaulx, Eadmer, Robert Grosseteste, Roger Bacon, John Scotus, John Peckham, William of Ockham,
Thomas Chobham, Thomas More, and others, not to mention the Magna Carta.

The project: from Print to Online…
At the beginning of the 20th century, the
project is initiated with the gathering of
quotation evidence on slips.

1934
An interim report, the Medieval Latin
Word-List from British and Irish Sources,
is published by the British Academy.

1975

2013

The first fascicle of the Dictionary of
Medieval Latin from British Sources is
published.

The 17th and last fascicle of the Dictionary
of Medieval Latin from British Sources is
published.

2015
The DMLBS is launched Online.

PLEASE CONTACT BREPOLS PUBLISHERS FOR:
❱ a 30-day free trial period for institutional users
❱ a price quotation
❱ details on, or a specimen of, the licence agreement

Subscription types:
UK/USA

❱ Subscription in UK according the JISC classification
❱ Subscription in USA according the Carnegie classification
Standard Licence

❱ Offers access to the full information and includes remote access for
three simultaneous users

❱ Access is by IP address(es)
Campus Wide Licence

❱ Access is unlimited by IP address(es)
❱ Access includes remote access
Consortium / Multiple-Campus Subscription

❱ Volume discounts are available for qualifying groups of institutions
and multi-site licences

Individual subscription

❱ For personal use only
❱ It offers a single username and password that must not be shared

BREPOLiS is the home of all online
projects of Brepols Publishers and its
partners, aimed at the international
community of humanities scholars.
The site will offer intelligent and
flexible searching of related and linkable
databases of unrivalled quality.

Begijnhof 67
B-2300 Turnhout
Belgium
Tel.: +32 (14) 44 80 34
Fax: +32 (14) 42 89 19
brepolis@brepols.net
www.brepolis.net

Subscribers to the Database of Latin Dictionaries contact us
for a special price.
A Licence Agreement needs to be signed when starting a subscription.
Subscriptions run for the calendar year.

84PD2334

