Hello there. My name is Brandon Joe
Williams. I'm a trustee of Williams and
Williams Law Group. And uh today I'm
going to be talking about driving versus
traveling. I'm going to try to break
this down into like a 10-minute micro
video for sharability online and that
kind of thing. Uh if you want to see the
full article on this, I'm only going to
do part of the article on this or part
of the page. You're going to go to
williamsandwill williamslawfirm.com
and then you're going to click on
driving vt traveling and this page will
pop up and you can read it or if you
scroll down you'll see I have a video
here of a presentation that I gave on a
show. I may replace this with a
different show if I ever do that kind of
presentation again but it it's a it's a
long you know I think it's like a two
two and a half hour presentation on an
actual show that I did. So, if you'd
rather see more of like a demonstration
of me talking about it and showing it,
click here or you can just read this
page. Uh, with that said, let's get
started. So, obviously, we have two
sides of this argument or equation or
whatever you want to call it. We've got
the idea that registration, license, and
proof of insurance is required to
operate a motor vehicle on public roads,
which is true under certain certain
circumstances. And then we also have the
idea that we aren't driving
commercially. We're traveling
non-commercial, which the US Supreme
Court has already established. we have
the right to do. That's also correct
under certain circumstances. So, what I
want to do is really get down to the
nitty-g gritties as to how all this
stuff works with you. First and
foremost, the most important thing we
need to cover is the commerce clause.
Commerce clause is is uh article one
section 8 of the US Constitution. The
Congress shall have power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among
the several states and with Indian
tribes. Three things. You got to
memorize those three things.
Uh when it comes to the commerce clause,
uh uh Congress has what's called plenary
power only over areas that are under the
commerce clause. Plenary power is
defined as complete power over a
particular area with no limitations.
This term is often used to describe the
commerce power of Congress. Under the
commerce clause, Congress is granted
full power over interstate commerce. The
court has found that states are not able
to pass laws affecting interstate
commerce without the permission of
Congress. That's why it's like this,
right? So again, you got the three
different sections of the commerce
clause. Commerce with foreign nations,
commerce among the several states, which
means interstate commerce, and then
commerce with Indian tribes. You have to
memorize these three things. It's so
important, not just here, but
everywhere. The most important thing
when it comes to the driving versus
traveling argument or concern or
whatever you want to call it is uh the
difference between state citizenship and
US citizenship. Right? US citizens do
not have the right to drive or the right
to travel. So both sides are wrong
because a lot of people on the sovereign
side of the equation are like I'm a
citizen. I have rights. You don't. So
both sides are wrong. US citizens do not
have the right to drive or travel. And
we're going to talk about the difference
between those two terms. State citizens
have the right to travel and they also
have the right to drive until it starts
to become something that has to do with
foreign nations, interstate commerce or
Indian tribes. So if it's a California
state citizen, which has to be a white
person to be a state citizen, I have
another video on that. And then you can
also go to my website and go to a
treatise on the word person. And you can
see a massive breakdown of the building
out and all the evidence behind state
citizenship versus US citizenship. Uh
state citizenship is the original
American citizenship. It's for white
people only. US citizen category is for
every other race such as the uh black
people, such as uh Mexicans, everything
else. It's for the that's what the US
citizens are. And you can say I'm crazy,
but go to the treatise on the word
person. You'll see I've got all the
evidence laid out for you. Right? So, US
citizens do not have the right to drive
or travel. State citizens have the right
to travel and drive as long as they
aren't getting involved in the commerce
code uh clause. So, a California state
citizen like me, a white guy, can
perform commercially as long as I'm not
going over state lines, dealing with
foreign nations, or having to do with
Indian tribes. And that's this section
here. We're not going to get into it any
more than that right now. It's way too
much to do on this video. So here we'll
talk about we'll go right into driver's
licenses. Okay. So how would I define a
driver's license? The primary contract
that establishes your activities is
falling under one or more of the three
points of the commerce clause. This is
done by establishing that you are a US
citizen or resident foreigner, which is
called a resident alien of a state. A
resident alien is somebody who just they
they don't they're not a US citizen or a
state citizen, but they're here. They
have some foreign allegiance, right?
Which would be point number one of the
commerce clause. and or that you are
engaged in commercial activity between
state lines would be point two of the
Thomas clause. Right? I'm not going to
get into this too much more. I think you
should just come on here and read it if
you want to see more. Right? But to
understand the word driver, the first
thing we need to look up is the
definition of transportation. The
Department of Transportation. That's the
that's the department that deals with
all of this stuff. The DMV is underneath
the DOT. So, how do we determine this?
the removal of goods or persons from one
place to another by a carrier.
Now let's look at the definition of the
word carrier. Carriers are either common
or private. Common carriers are those
that hold themselves out to undertake or
carry persons or goods of all persons
indifferently or of those who choose to
employ it or those whose occupation or
business is transportation of persons or
things for hire or reward. Common
carriers of passengers are those that,
and I can't even read it because the
thing's in the way, undertake to carry
persons indifferently who may apply. So,
it's it's very simple. As far as I'm
concerned, a common carrier is a is a
Let's just be simple. It's a hoe.
They'll take anyone. But but again, keep
in mind this is all commercial persons,
property, or cargo. But it's very
specific. We have to get into common
carrier versus private carrier. So, so
private carriers are those who transport
or undertake the transport in a
particular instance for hire or reward.
Right? So, the thing is is that the
difference between a common carrier and
a private carrier uh a a private motor
carrier is basically when are they doing
commerce? It one is doing commerce all
the time and the other one is doing
commerce only part of the time, but you
realize they're both still commerce. And
then we start getting into driver.
There's a lot of different definitions
and stuff like that, but when you start
getting into the Motor Carrier Act
jurisdiction, it's an individual who
drives a motor vehicle in
transportation, which is within the
meaning of the Motor Carrier Act in
interstate or foreign commerce. Again,
it's got to be under the commerce
clause. So, all the word transportation
literally in itself by itself means
commerce. And then now we're breaking
down the different types of commerce and
the different meanings of commerce and
stuff like that. Now the next section we
have to get into I don't have a lot of
time so I can't cover these these
subjects in a whole lot of detail so I'm
already 7 minutes in is the manufacturer
certificate of origin in rel uh in
comparison to a certificate of title
right so the MCO is the actual title on
the vehicle and I'll show you one this
is what it looks like and this is the
this is the document that comes straight
from the dealership when you buy a brand
new car or something like that this is
the actual title and you can even read
on the back it says that there's no
other security interest or anything. You
have to send this into the state in
order to get a certificate of title.
This is a certificate of title, the pink
slip, right? And we're going to get into
how this splits ownership into two
different categories. Okay? So, when you
have an MCO, the original uh ownership
document, you're the legal owner and
also the equitable owner. But when you
send it in to the state to get what's
called a jurisdiction title, which you
can learn more by reading this, I'm
running out of time. You're splitting
the ownership into a legal owner and a
beneficial owner. And you're giving the
state legal ownership, which is defined
as one who is recognized and held
responsible by the law as the owner of
property. In a more particular sense,
one in whom the legal title to real
estate is vested, but who holds it in
trust for the benefit of another. The
latter being called the equitable owner.
That's you. When you have a certificate
of title, the equitable owner, which is
also called beneficial owner, the
definition of beneficial/ equitable
owner is one who is recognized in equity
as the owner of property because the
real and beneficial use and title
belongs to him. Although the bare legal
title is vested in another, for example,
a trustee for his benefit. One who has a
present title in land which will ripen
into legal ownership once the perform
that doesn't apply. I don't think there
may therefore be two owners in respect
to the same property. One the nominal or
legal owner, the other the beneficial or
equitable owner. So, I thought I was
going to be able to get through more of
this page uh on this video. It's it's
very difficult, but basically, as you
can see, you're the the ownership is
splitting into two categories, right?
And on this page, I go into it in more
detail. The jurisdiction title, uh I
have all of the original parts of the
jurisdiction title. I have quotes from
certain things. I have so much more
information on this page. So, I
apologize. I can't believe it's already
been nine and a half minutes. Uh,
Williams and Williamslawfirm.com
and then just go to this driving vt
traveling page. Either read the whole
thing or watch the the show I was on,
which is about a two two and a half hour
presentation. It's going to break
everything down way more for you. But
the all these various things, you have
to understand all these various things
in order to understand this subject.
Everyone's very ignorant on this and we
really really really need to increase
our our knowledge and really work
together to figure this
Driving v. Traveling (Explained